# PLWS
Phylogenomics from Low-coverage Whole-genome Sequencing
We present a novel WGS-based pipeline for extracting essential phylogenomic markers through rapid genome assembling from low-coverage genome data, employing a series of computationally efficient bioinformatic tools. We tested the pipeline on a Hexapoda dataset and a more focused Phthiraptera dataset (genome sizes 0.1‒2 Gbp), and further investigated the effects of sequencing depth on target assembly success rate based on raw data of six insect genomes (0.1‒1 Gbp). Each genome assembly was completed in 2‒24 hours on desktop PCs. We extracted 872‒1,615 near-universal single-copy orthologs (BUSCOs) per species. This method also enables development of ultraconserved element (UCE) probe sets; we generated probes for Phthiraptera based on our WGS assemblies, containing 55,030 baits targeting 2,832 loci, from which we extracted 2,125‒2,272 UCEs. We also showed that only 10‒20× sequencing coverage was sufficient to produce hundreds to thousands of targeted loci from BUSCO sets, and even lower coverage (5×) was required for UCEs. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of conducting phylogenomics from low-coverage WGS for a wide range of organisms. This new approach has major advantages in data collection, particularly in reducing sequencing cost and computing consumption, while expanding loci choices.

All four bash scripts are only tested in Centos operating system, and may be available for other Linux systems. Their functions are described below.
  1. script1_Genome_assembly.sh: Script 1 performs main rapid genome assembly steps, i.e. read quality trimming and normalization (BBtools),  error correction (Lighter), multi-k-mer assembly (Minia3), reduction of heterozygous contigs (Redundans), scaffolding (BESST), gap filling (GapCloser) and BUSCO assessment (BUSCO).
  2. script2_BUSCO_extraction.sh: Script 2 extracts single-copy orthologs (BUSCOs) from previous BUSCO assessments and generates alignment matrices of 50%-100% completeness (MAFFT, trimAl and FASconCAT-G) and partitioning schemes for phylogenetic analyses.
  3. 
